From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number one 49. Recorded live
Tuesday, February 10th, 2009. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by tolerant
Rav controls. The most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web application.
online@wwwdottenerikdotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
to Doug cook house Seville
and Lee Brenner about their
new Twitter client blue. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. Today. We're sitting
down with the guys from
1323 is a development design
firm. I've got Doug cook.
How Seville and leap renter.
Can you guys tell me
who does what? A lot
of people, we have a
small team here. Okay. Okay.
Okay. So I wanted to
talk to you guys because
you've got some experiences you
call them demos samples, experiences
up@thirteentwentythree.com. The word 13, the
number 20 three.com. And one
of them really kind of
took a Twitter by storm
a couple weeks ago. It
used to be called chirp
and you've had a little
name conflict, and you've renamed
it blue. And it's a
WPF Twitter client. And there's
been some clients before. There's
a w I T T
Y. That's an open source
to VP of client, but
this is the first exceedingly
pretty one. I mean, it's,
it's, it's pretty amazing. It's
got a really cool color
scheme. Some it's got a
real interesting aesthetic. It's not
the, the standard developer kind
of 1970s, orange shag carpet,
avocado colored refrigerator style. It's,
it's pretty amazing. Why did
you make a Twitter client?
We do these labs. Ain't
got to go in and
That's, those were labs you
see on the site, I
started just like, you know,
getting on Twitter cause a
buddy was like, Hey, check
this out Twitter. And I'm
like, yeah, that's, that's kinda
not great. You know, I'm
not interested in that. And
then, you know, some started
seeing some people post some
things and like, I was
kind of interesting. So I
create an account and very
modest, but then I was
like, okay, let's check out
a desktop client. And then
I was noticing a lot
of them were terrible. I
mean, not only just from
a visual standpoint, but from
an interaction standpoint. And I'm
like, where's the EST button,
where's this? Oh my God,
there's too many buttons on
this one. You know? So
it was like, you know,
just kind of like trying
to come up with something
that was in between, but
also I did not mind
having on my desktop and
wasn't green, so, you know,
just kind of played around
with it. And then, you
know, that's how that started.
And this is just an
experiment and you guys put
it out there. Did you
think it was gonna take
off because it's going to
be? Yeah, I think the
main thing to understand about
the labs is they're primarily
designed experiments. So most of
them are, tend to be
our excursions in the, you
know, in the technology. And
then also just kind of
practicing within internally within a
core team, kind of honing
out our own process. So,
you know, a lot of
times we'll launch these, not
expecting them to be full
floods, you know, applications, they're
more sort of excursions in,
you know, how can we
create a nice experience around
a set of, you know,
a small set of services.
So Twitter seem to be
kind of a nice model
system because it's not very
complex. I'm going to seem
like there would be a
lot we could maybe do
to raise the bar there.
So, you know, when we
first launched, we were actually
a little surprised that people
kind of got into it
and we're pretty excited about
it because we really had
left out kind of some
core functionality, but this was
mainly just because the focus
was just to kinda get
a simple client out there.
And you know, it's a
little bit of a calling
card for the company. Yeah.
It seems like a desktop
versions of popular web applications
seem to be the last
great thing. I mean, we've
got word and Excel and
outlook and about on a
browser really all that's left
to right. Are really great.
Front ends to things like
Twitter. I noticed you guys
also wrote an application that
front ends Netflix. Yeah, definitely.
So we have another application
is called drama. That's based
on a open API as
well in the past. We've
also done things, as you
mentioned for flicker photo browsing.
And then also one time
we had a denounced sort
of a podcast reader. All
of these are kind of
based on the premise that,
you know, the web is
a great conduit for information,
but not always the best
experience in terms of, in
terms of accessing that content
or experiencing that content. Yeah.
Now folks won't be able
to see this, of course,
cause we're on a podcast,
but I'll try to explain
it the best I can.
Blue kind of when you
start it up from a
design perspective, it kinda kind
of smacks you in the
face. It unfolds out of,
out of a thin line
with a transparent window and
then kind of rolls down
with a bit of an
arrow then goes from kind
of transparent to slightly translucent.
And then it has a
very kind of irregular region.
It's got a really dramatic
representation of the Twitter. What
is it, a Twitter pigeon
or Twitter Bluebird, it's kind
of your, your, your view
of what this bird would
look like. How in the
world did you do that
startup? I mean, it, it,
it doesn't just pop a
window up and say, Hey,
log in. It, it kind
of unfurls itself in a
very dramatic way. And I'm
trying to figure out, is
this a transparent movie or
what? I mean, even if
you try blue and don't
like it and end up
using a different Twitter client,
it's worth installing just to
see the startup and shutdown
animations. And I cannot get
my head around how you
did this in WPF, Hey,
before we get into the
actual, like the, you know,
how we built it, but,
but to address the more
concept behind it is the
need, the desire to try
to do something different. That's
the point of the lab
because it's there for us.
And, you know, we floated
on the website and, you
know, Lou was an experiment
to see how far we
can push it. It's like
I did, when I, when
I was talking to these
guys, I was like, why
don't we just have to
have a window open like
that every window that I've
ever had on my desktop
does that, why can't it
anime on, but then here's
the other trick? Why can't
I have an animate off
as well? You know? So
we, we kind of pushed
it a little over the
top, but fun. No one
does it, I guess, Wait,
I mean, it's, it's over
the top in the sense
that it's, it it's well,
I mean, I wouldn't say
it's over the top. I
mean, I guess if every
single window did that, it's
over the top. When, when
we moved from windows 90,
was it 98 to XP
and they started to have
that little animation when you
minimized and then on the
Mac, they've got the genie
animation. A lot of people
thought, Oh, this is a
waste of power, but it
does. It does let you
know that something's happening. It
does express an interaction and
it's a, it's a punctuation
on an interaction. So I
don't think it's necessarily just
eye candy. One of the,
one of the key tenants
that we were trying to
shoot for with blue was
to have no rough edges
in any experience. And what
I mean by that is
we didn't want the user
to have some hard transition
at any point, whether that
be in the UI or
even in the Twitter data
that's coming in from the
service. So every everything's smoothly
blend from, from one moment
to another, if that means,
you know, switching timelines, you'll
see that the timeline smoothly,
you know, slide in and
out, or if you're Twitter
comes in or a new
tweet comes in all of
the other tweets sort of
nicely moved down and natural
motion to make room for
the new one. And the
same in that same tenant
goes forward to start up
and the shutdown, we didn't
want it to be a,
a heart, a heart stop.
We wanted things to come
in and out so that
everything was very contextual so
that the user always knew
sort of inherently knew what
was going on without, you
know, based on visual feedback
of the animations are, Are
little subtle. I mean, they
almost, they're almost subconscious. For
example, one of the things
I like about your reply
animation is when you click
on somebody's name, like right
here, I'm looking at a
tweet from Tim O'Reilly. I
hover over it and I
see the buttons fade in
and I see replying retreat.
I click reply, Tim O'Reilly
flips over. And then my
face shows up with a
little, little bubble as if
I'm a comic book character.
And there's a, a nice,
transparent, a number in the
background, kind of as a
watermark indicating how many characters
I have less, but what's
significant to me here is
that when I hit reply,
it, doesn't just flip over
my, my window, my new
reply window kind of, kind
of swells for a moment.
It just kind of gets
a little wider and then
gets smaller. It's almost like
what you'd see in classic,
you know, kind of sixties
animation like bugs bunny type
animation. I mean, somebody cared
about this, not to like
a quote silence of the
lambs too much here, but
you know, if somebody loved
this, somebody cared about this.
There's idle animations. When the,
when the little blooper just
decides it's time to, you
know, flap its wings. Yeah.
We, we really didn't want
to leave any stone unturned
in the experience. You know,
there's every, every moment that
you're in the app, we
wanted it to just kind
of surprise you a little
bit. And, and the dude
that, you know, you have
to, you really have to
think about what you're appealing
to in a, in a
human level. You know, humans
respond to things emotionally, ultimately,
so that you can make
the application behave naturally with
natural physical motion with, with
small random moments. It just
makes it that much more
interesting to interact with. And
it's almost, it's almost like
a gentle, it's like a
gentle presence rather than this
hard, you know, computer generated
application. I think another thing
to point out is it's
kind of interesting is it's
an attempt to kind of
get away from traditionally UI
paradigms. Like when the, when
things are loading in the
application, you know, we run
kind of a, a stream
around the edge and then
it flashes instead of just
putting up a hard sort
of, you know, a lot
of people kind of put
it like a rotating wheel
when things are happening. I
think there's a lot of
opportunity to, you know, try
to do things that are
a little more, you know,
a little more organic within
terms of the overall experience
that matched with kind of
the application. It was important
for it to, to surface
the ideas of content rather
than a UI. We really
only wanted to surface a
user interface if it was
absolutely necessary for the most
part, the user should be
interacting with content. So rather
than surfacing a progress bar
to indicate a working state,
we just, we just build
that into the natural, into
the UI itself so that
it, it's not, you know,
it's, again, it's like the
smooth experience with these or
has, and it's all sort
of a natural and inherent
in the UI itself. Yeah.
Well, I want to some
of the technical stuff, I
mean, we can definitely talk
about how, how pretty it
is and I can gush
about it, but I want
to understand how this was
done, how the work was
partitioned, who did, who did
what, and if that's a
T, if you feel that
that's a typical developer designer
workflow, or if it's, are
you all designers, because Microsoft
has this idea of what
they call the diviner, I'm
not a huge fan of
the name, but developer and
designer one. And I don't
really believe that those people
exist. So I'm interested in
your opinion about that and
how you guys break work
up on an application like
this that clearly has a
lot of work going on
in the background, but a
is pretty as well. W
I, I think w we're
a small team and we're
all very, I think we're
all pretty skilled at what
we do. So I don't
think that we, we fall
into the traditional roles just
because, just because we are,
so we are so specialized
and that at what we
do, but I think for
our typical workflow, there's still
a big, there's still a
big focus of the rapport
between the designer and the
developer, because we, we sort
of overlap hats where, whereas
the designer definitely provides a
lot of the initial design
and a lot of the
initial assets, and then hand
them off to me to
do the development at the
same time. I'm, you know,
I'm making suggestions to the,
to the, to that design
adding in my own, you
know, adding in my own
touch with, with, you know,
code based animation and, you
know, the custom layout engine
to add physics and, and
direct manipulation and things like
that. So it's a very,
it's a very fluid process
and everyone ends up contributing
to the process. So it's
kind of hard to say
that, you know, everything is
sectioned off in a nice
silos. And I, and it's
hard to also admit that,
yeah, we're we have diviners
because it actually doesn't, doesn't
work out that way for
us personally. Yeah. I want
to understand if your workflow
works in the, kind of
the way Microsoft thinks it's
supposed to work, like, you
know, an XAML file gets
handed to someone and it's
got all kinds of pretty
designed time code and everything.
I mean, I think there's,
there's much to be made
of like, you know, how
Microsoft positions, its new design
tools and the expression suite
and decide, you know, design
time versus run time. And
then the idea that you
can have designers working in
blend and you know, at
the same time, if I
had developers pulling things up
in visual studio and well,
while I think that there,
there definitely are some synergies,
you know, we'll rely on,
on blend in some cases
to, to generate, you know,
complex analytic gradients and what
have you. But by and
large, it just seems like
at the end of the
day, a lot of the
integration still falls on the
developer. So a big part
of, I think our process
anyways, not only having multiple
people looking at the, looking
at the code and looking
at the build, but then
also having developers that can
kind of understand the aesthetic
that, that you're aiming at.
Hmm. Do you guys have
the designer makes SAML or
does he make a Photoshop
thing or does he write
the thing in flash first?
I mean, how do you
get a concept across? Well,
I'll say I, I was
floating designs for the guys
when we were just kind
of developing it, just kind
of brainstorming it and they're
like, Oh yeah, this is
cool. This is cool. The
bird cool and everything. But
I think it really kind
of took off from a
concept standpoint and got complete
buy-in is when I actually
kind of animated it in
seeing it the way that
you see it, like in,
in Yeshua application, I kind
of said, no, this is
how it really should behave
and open up and everything.
And, and then it's like,
once I floated that movie
out to the guys, it
was like, let's do it.
So this one had been
started static. It was, it
had to move. And then
that's when everyone got excited
and that's when we started
to, you know, get, you
know, Lee start firing up
the coast And where did,
what did you show them?
You showed them something in,
in expression or what Just
quick time movie. It wasn't,
it was a little unrefined,
but it shows the direction.
So that was, that was
important. And then there was
a chirp, I don't mean
to be pedantic, but you
made them a quick time
movie, but what did you
do your design work in?
Well, just the typical Adobe
tools, nothing too special just
to, you know, Photoshop, illustrator
after effects. And then how
did you do the animation
part? You know, all those
tools combined. We'd like to
say those opening animations, we
know we're just going to
Chrome or, you know, some
amazing direct X based, you
know, defamation, but you know,
that's just, that's just not
the case. I think the
story is still a little
bit the same. And I
think that as flash, as
in the past, which is
it's sort of a, by
any means necessary. So in
many cases, you know, we
don't have a problem relying
on, you know, image sequences
or movies or, you know,
other types of assets. I
know there's big push to
get everything in SAML. And
I think a lot of
those that make sense, certainly
in terms of if you're
going to be resizing a
lot of content, but you
know, in the case of
this application where we're kind
of just shooting after kind
of a small footprint, small
gadget like application, we went
ahead and can some of
those sequences, You know, I
went a bunch, I went
and did a bunch of,
of work recently with a
buddy of mine on an
application for a large company.
And I blogged a little
bit about it. And one
of the things that people
kind of read me, the
riot act about was that
I used a lot of
transparent PNGs as resources. And
I found that the combination
of XAML and declarative animations
and those transparent PNGs gave
me a lot more flexibility
that I would have been
very difficult to do. And
when forms are, are you
guys sending, as I did
with transparent PNGs and stuff,
That's definitely the case. You
know, we're not, we're not
curious. We, we, we use
what we need to use
to get the job done,
to get the best fidelity
that we want. So yeah,
we have no problem using
ping sequences or XAML it's
whatever it happens to work
best for the fidelity we
need. And actually might be
helpful to point out that
we, we sort of have
built up our own internal
library to support, you know,
to support some of the,
the fidelity that we have
in blue. So if, if
we do want to use
a ping sequence, you know,
we have a pretty robust,
robust class that's in the
library that will allow us
to really quickly and easily
add in as many things
sequences and, you know, control
timing and frame rate, and
whether it's reversed report and
weeping, things like that. You
know, we have, we have
a layout engine in there
that can handle really fluid,
you know, adding items to,
to a layout really fluidly
where everything animates incorrectly, you
can dynamically adjust the orientation,
or even the way out
FEMA from say, stack panel
to grid, to, you know,
fan view. And then on
top of that is completely
virtualized. And that actually affords
us a lot of it
affords us a lot of
efficiencies because then we can
actually take that library and
just drop it into like,
say drama. And then you,
you have drama really quickly
because you can, you can
basically just hook your data
source up to this way
out engine or hook your
new pings up into a
new entrance of the image
sequence. And you know, you're
good to go. So how
far off of the classic,
let's say classic, the standard
WPF way of doing things,
do you think you guys
are, I mean, how many
things, how many different libraries
did you have to write?
Because you felt that a
WPF was missing something and
didn't do something versus you
just wanted to write libraries
to support a certain style.
The, the framework is, is
beautiful. The WTF framework is
just excellent because it, at
the same time, it gives
you such a great base
amount of functionality, but it's
so easy to build on
top of it to get,
to get to that next
level. If you, if you
require a higher degree of
control and fidelity over what
it is that you want.
So for us, we, you
know, we, when we code
a class in the library,
we definitely want it to
follow the, the model laid
out by the framework. So,
you know, our, our layout
panel, you know, follows the
virtualization method, can plug it
to a list box as
an items panel source, either
a panel should take place
and, and, you know, you
can define its item source
and then circle collection. You're
good to go. One thing
that's kind of interesting is
we wrote this, you know,
way before it went seven
way before there was any
concept that, you know, the
touch drivers there it's provided
in the , we kind
of have to go in
and enroll that in ourselves.
You know, we kind of
had to split away from
the standard listbox control with,
with that goes the classes
from the selector, because we
needed to be able to
support direct manipulation and physics
and sort of, you know,
overshooting the window, things like
that. So we kind of
had to roll that our
own because we just didn't
have anything else to go
off of. But you know,
that, that shows you how
powerful the framework is. Because
if you, if you take
the time to dig in
there and understand what's going
on, you can actually achieve
some really nice results. Did
you get stuck in any
places where it was just
like, it looks like WPF,
just flat not going to
do this, You know, actually
no, everything that I've been
able to dream up, I've
been able to accomplish with
the framework. Yeah, I'll go
ahead. I was just going
to say, I think, I
mean, I think we, we,
the way we go in
every project is a scene
that it can probably be
done and then we'll kind
of work backwards, but, you
know, for sure in terms
of, you know, how we
use the framework, I don't
think it's that, you know,
I don't think it's that
off the grid different than,
than, than most people. I
think if anything, we're just
leveraging the framework. I mean,
Microsoft always had this idea
of liquid controls and it's
very easy to extend, you
know, common behaviors and create
new controls or user controls.
And certainly in terms of
bitmap effects and some of
the new sort of motion
blurs, what have you. We
definitely rely on those, but
you know, when, when we
come to a place where
we want to do something
a little more adventurous, you
know, say adjust the Chrome
with the application, then I
think, you know, we're left
to rely on other forms
of magic. Can I want
to get back to the
technical details of that splash
screen that I asked about
earlier, but before I get
into that, I want to
ask another technical question. You
know, you pick up this
list box with your mouse
and you can, you can
throw it. You can, you
can pick it up, you
can scroll up and down.
I can grab it and
then I can toss it.
And it'll, it'll float for
a little while before it
kind of slows down. One
of the things that I
thought was really subtle and
I, that I appreciated was,
and I appreciate it because
I know that someone put
work into it as opposed
to appreciating it, because it
happened automatically is that if
you get all the way
to the top of your
list of tweets and you
pick it up and you
start dragging down, the, the
list pulls down a little
bit, a couple of 'em,
but it pulls down slower.
It's kind of trying to
imply, sorry, dude. That's as
far as you can go,
but if you keep yanking
on it, the application itself
starts to pull down as
if it's like, really, man,
you can't go any farther.
I'm I'm pulling as far
as I can. And then
you let go and then
it bounces back. You know,
somebody cared about that. How
in the world did you
pull that off? Explain to
me the technical background about
that particular thing, please. So
that's, we, you know, we
kind of, we, we kind
of went up windows seven
in that arena. I think,
you know, it's because we
don't have to work on
the no list to come
out with touch, to show
that off, we can sort
of come in through the
back door and get it
done quicker, but it's just
it's functionality. That's built into
the, the layout engine that
sits in our library. You
know, there's a, there's sort
of a standard model that
the panel rendering engine uses,
which is, you know, a
range override and a measure
override. And you sort of
use this animation here to
dynamically go between States. So
originally, Can you explain to
our listeners, they may not
necessarily know what a twin,
But what between the, between
the space of, let's say,
like, for instance, let's say
you, you have a stack
panel where things are stacked
horizontally and you go to
a grid view, standard expectation
is that if you change
the view, that all of
a sudden everything has sort
of magically snaps into the
new place, right. Elements in
the list, just magically change
the location. The idea is
that it's very jarring for
the user. You want to
provide some context. So it
would be nice if they
animated from a horizontal layout
to a grid layout. So
that, that would be handling
that tween of going from
one way or another would
be, cause what I'm referring
to when I say between,
Right? So in between is
what that's for. And that's
one of the things that
animators used to do. Like
if you go to Disney
and you've got an animator
who is a, someone who
animates by hand, you've got
your professional animator who draws
the key frame where maybe
Mickey has Mickey mouse has
his arm down. And then
the next key frame, he
has his mouth. He has
his hand up rather, right.
He has his hand down
his hand up, he writes
those, he draws those two
key frames and then he
passes it off to some,
some intern, some guy has
hidden in the basement and
that guy writes all of
the tweens. He says, get
Mickey's hand and move from
here to there, work it
out. So you're basically saying
you've written a library that
figures tweens out within WPF
or uses the existing animation
library to do that. Yeah,
well, in this case, the,
the intern that's sitting in
the basement would just be
math. It's, you know, it's,
it's, it's based on the
same math that the classic
Robert pinner equations, you know,
from flash use that you,
you basically just say, this
is where my item is
right now. And this is
where it should be X
amount of time from now
and apply some sort of
mathematical equation to get them
there. And that's really what
it all boils down to
anything from changing the orientation
of the items to dragging
the items beyond their extent,
and then slowly moving the
window itself. Huh. But you
were, I was dragging the
list box inside the window
and though the entire application,
the outer window kind of
figured that out and decided
to move along too. We
throwing events up to that
window for him to listen
to him. No, no, that's
actually all built into the,
the way out animal itself.
You can, you can The
layout panel. So this was
a bubbled event. The layout
panel knew that it was
being pulled too far. Yeah.
Internally for direct manipulation. The
layout engine, you know, the
panel itself is with receiving
those events. So it's sort
of like the master controller.
And if it knows that
it needs to move the
window, you know, it's easy
enough. And, and WPF to
walk the visual tree here
to walk the logical tree,
get a reference to the
window and, you know, offset
it based on, based on
some sort of mathematical equation.
And yeah, we, we definitely
want, like, we really think
long and hard about these
things. So we thought it
would be cool if, you
know, initially the list sort
of starts resisting you, but
then eventually the window stuff
that's resisting at the same
time, we thought that would
be really nice. So we
wrote, Yeah, it's a pretty,
it's a pretty slick, it's
just, it's just one more
layer that layer of Polish
I think is pretty cool.
Now how help me understand
what we talked about at
the very beginning of the
show, when I was asking
you about this, this opening
animation, I mean, is it
just a movie or what's,
what's going on there? It's
a, it's a series of
the, the same sequences laid
over each other. So yeah,
You're saying that it's, it's
a bunch of PNG, a
bunch of PNGs, or you
guys call them pings that
are just laid over. So
it's a poor man's movie.
Okay. Like how alluded to
he, you know, he built
out this, this reference animation
for us to show what
his ideal was for this
startup and shutdown. So I
said, okay, yeah, let's do
this. Ideally, you know, take
me out a sequence of
the window itself and then
bake me out a sequence
of the blue bird, you
know, coming in with the
particle effects. And then I,
I will use, you know,
our library to load up
these sequences and then control
them. Our image sequence class
happens to, you know, it
counts its frames and fires
events on those frames so
that you can sort of
time things correctly so that
you can overlay animations based
on events. So I knew
that at a certain frame
of the window growing, I
could fire off the, the
bird animation. And then when
the Verde animation completes, I
know that I can fade
in the rest of the
UI elements. So yeah, that's,
that's, that's the way that
we achieve all of the
nice, smooth transitions from one
state to the next. So
this is because you can't
do transparent movies because you
keep saying image sequence and
I keep thinking moving, and
I'm thinking, is there a
transparent Avi or transparent QuickTime
or some kind of transparent
thing? And this thing is
this animation is about three
seconds long. What does that?
50 or 60 PNGs? Yeah,
it's a pretty, it's a
pretty large theme sequence. And
we've definitely been deemed for
our, our memory. And we've,
we've been working with some
guys from Microsoft to, you
know, sort of streamline that.
And one of the guys
went in and made a,
made an avionics for me
and then used that to
sort of clerk the unwanted
portions to make me, which
is great. Great test. That
was back when the.net framework
though, just for a take
a really long time. So
we've, we've kind of just
had said, you can actually
print by, you know, the
garbage collecting sequence after we
get done with it or
we need it. Correct. Cause
my memory usage right now
on this particular thing is
160 megs. Yeah. And you're
saying that, that, that, that
ping sequence, I don't know
if I can get used
to saying ping, you know,
the whole gift Jeff controversy
of the early nineties. Yeah.
I don't respect people who
say, Jeff, I just want
to let you that the
missioners know that if they
say Jeff and I don't
want their business Sort of
like, you know, the whole
quick thing where you either
get somewhere to get somewhere.
So you were saying that
some chunk of that is,
is that, is that sequence
of images that may not
have been let go of.
Right, right. Yeah. Like, yeah,
like Doug said, you know,
we released this to the
lab. We weren't really concerned
about memory footprint or anything
like that. But once we
found out that people actually
wanting to use this product
as a product and not
just the lab, People actually
wanted to use the Twitter
client. Right. Well, you know,
it was a lab. We
didn't, we weren't expecting people
to just want to adopt
it and use it on
a regular basis. But now
that we see that it's
viable, we're definitely going back
and trying to address some
of these issues. So in
the building I'm working on
now, it wants the one
set sequence gets garbage, collected
it reclaims or frees up
a whole lot of memory.
It seems to vary based
on computer and based on
hardware and video drivers. I
know how's machine blue runs
it at 30 megs at
a 30 minutes, very consistently
on my machine when it
starts up, it's in, it's
about 120 minutes, but then
once the garbage collection kicks
in, it drops down to
about 70 or 80. We
have a couple other guys
who are using it. And
it seems to, you know,
seem to vary anywhere between
80 megs to 60 megs.
I think it has something
to do with video cards
because I'm running at a
220 make working set right
now. Interesting. Now, one of
the things that people first
noticed when they look at
it, not only is that
it pretty, but it doesn't
resize. How much of a
problem is that going to
be with the way that
you've laid things out using?
I mean, I'm using a
lot of these PNGs and
when I did my application,
people said, well, you know,
this isn't going to scale.
It won't look good at
high, you know, large fonts,
you know, the more rasters
that you use and the
fewer vectors, the more you're
going to paint yourself in
the corner. Is there a
problem with that with the
resizing or is that not
really Well? We, so we,
in a future rev, we're
definitely going to add in
vertical resizing and that it's
not an issue with the
restroom images. You can, you
know, you can do it
a nine grade or you,
you know, you can chop
her images up so that
you can make them scalable.
So we are going to
make the vertically side of
the, we making it horizontally
and vertically sizable we'll introduce.
And yet again, since we,
you know, we were going
for very specific look, we,
you know, we didn't, we
had never really planned to
make the app sizable, but
again, since people want to
use it already, like if
this were, we definitely want
to afford some of that
functionality in there. Yeah. I
mean, I'm looking at it
next sitting and looking at
my running instance of blue
next to my running instance
of tweet deck. And I'm
wishing I could make multiple
columns and blue. And I
think you could dethrone tweet
deck as the power user
or the power of Twitter
users, a client of choice.
If you look to them
for your inspiration. Yeah. I
mean, tweak the Kansas place,
but in the experience that
we were trying to convey
or our Twitter experience, or
at least my own, I'm
not gonna speak for the
guys. Twitter to me is
more like an ambient stream
of my friends. Just kind
of saying, Hey, check this
out. So, you know, I
don't need to have like,
just, just a console, just
like I need to keep
track of all my tweets
at all times. And here's
this it's like, no, no,
no, no. Cause that's more
stress I see. So blue
is not for the uptight
inner retentive tweeter like myself.
Well, I mean, it definitely
has an audience in the
sense that, you know, it's
just an ambient experience. It
was on your desktop and
it just, it does its
thing, you know, it grabs
tweet. And then if you
happen to look at it,
the bird might, you know,
the Bluebird might fly between
for you. So give me
some, do you have any
stories or anything crazy that
you had to deal with?
Any, any debugging issues? I
mean, you said that you're
working on the working set
right now, but if you
have you run into anything
that, that really kind of
kicked your ass for a
couple of a couple hours
or a couple of days,
and then figured it out
and kind of had that
slap the forehead moment when
you were working with the
dotnet and deputy, I think
right now that the, the
definitely the thing that's been
most surprising is that the
huge variation in the working
set based on just using
team sequences, that's the thing
that's right now it's proving
to be the hardest to
get a handle around just
because hardware configurations seem to
affect that. So greatly the
Twitter, the Twitter client itself
is really, you know, it's
relatively simple model. So I
didn't really encounter too many
issues there other than just
standard, you know, stupid smack
yourself and forehead mistakes like
for getting a semi colon
every now and then, or
forgetting to you are all
in code. My, my URL
before I send it off
to the tiny URL service
will actually create an idiot
of myself and actually contacted
the guys at tiny girls
saying, look, I'm for some
reason, this isn't parsing, right.
He emailed me back saying,
you need to URL, URL,
encoder your stuff before you
send it to us. And
I just was like, Oh
man, such an idiot. You've
burned your bridges with those
guys. They'll never, they'll never
respect you again. I hate
it when I do stuff
like that. Yeah. But other
than that, you know, there
were, there weren't really too
many, too many hurdles. The
hurdles came and, you know,
writing the libraries really, and
just trying to get them
to figure out how virtualization
is supposed to work and
things like that, where the,
where the real, real tough
nut to crack. I think,
I think one other thing,
which is probably not completely
related, but certainly something we've
run into with our clients.
And there's a reason when
you go to the site,
you know, it says the
Vista Twitter client, even though
if you had three to
five SP one and XD,
you should be able to
run blue. But the main
problem being that the install
times and some installation experience
around installing three to five
and say XP where
the installer seems to just
kind of hang at 40%
and then whatnot. I think
that's awesome. Kind of a
major sort of hurdle, not
so much on this project,
but certainly on other projects.
Now you guys know that
the three, five SP one
framework is rolling out on
windows update. Now, so soon
everyone who's got update, we'll
start to see windows three-five
SP one, just show up
on their machine. So that
should make your installation experience
a lot better. Yeah, definitely.
I was kind of hoping
you'd have some horde story
about how WPF just kicked
your ass or something. It
didn't work. Yeah. Well, once
you've spent a few years
with the framework, you realize
it's really, it's pretty well
designed. It's, it's really nicely
flexible and you know, it's
like any tool, you gotta
have a hand that touches
the tool to use it,
the thing for it, but
you spent some time with
it and you realize it's
actually WTF is really pretty
nice. It's so incredibly easy
to do really high familiar
animations and plugging into stuff
that, you know, from your
flash Ks and plug in
the stuff from here three
days. So, Well see now
you've, you you've ruined my
plan for the talk. I
try to make the show,
not a, a Microsoft love
Fest. I don't want it
to be like this big
sycophant thing where we all
sit around talking about how
awesome stuff is. So I
was hoping you were going
to have some kind of
a, you know, horrific thing
where you wasted a week
because you were fighting. We
we've deemed it on, you
know, sort of the whole
thing. And I think
the high working set, you
know, I don't personally think
that I'm doing anything if
it was really crazy in
my code to cause it
to jump up to 200
megs. And when you can
see the front of, or
made it on one machine
and then 30 mics on
another, you know, that's a
little frustrating, but the, you
know, these are largely things
that seem to be really
inside the guts of the
framework itself. Yeah. I think
it has something to do.
I mean, I'm guessing here,
I think it probably has
something to do with texture
memory and what kind of
video card you have and
whether or not the, the,
the renderer can get these
things out into the video
card and out of, out
of memory. But you know,
the thing to do would
be to just go on
a task manager, right? Click
on blue dot exe and
say, create, dump, and go,
looking around a memory and
see what's there. You know,
there's lots of dotnet memory
visualizers. That'll let you just
take a snapshot of exactly
what's on the heap and
poke around and you'll see
what they are. It would
take no time. We should
do a show on that.
We should just take apart
this thing. Runtime. If you
gave me the symbols, I
might do it right now.
Cool. Well, I appreciate you
taking the time to chat
with me today. I think
that, that Blue's got a
lot of potential and I
think that, you know, even
be really interesting to see
if you could port it
to Silverlight and how much
trouble you would have to
see how different WPF is
versus a versus Silverlight. And,
you know, most people say,
if you want to learn
Jamel and WPF, they say,
learn Silverlight first and then
go up to the WPF.
Cause you have more, you
know, have more power. You
have a super set of
XAML. I'd be interesting to
see what would happen if
someone tried to port downward
port from a big application
like this into something on
the web. Yeah. We don't
have any immediately immediate plans
to do that. But I
think right now we're definitely
focused on actually just adding
more features to the Boulevard
and blue, you know, such
as replies view and making
it resizable things like that
search functionality, but you know,
that, that might be an
interesting, interesting experience for experiment.
Have you guys thought about
how you're going to update
it? Because I assume you're
going to, if it becomes
a popular thing and most
Twitter clients update, you know,
a couple of times a
month, are you going to
have people run the setup
program again, you're going to
switch it to click once.
No, it's, it's actually deployed
as quick once right now.
So a tiny startup blue,
there's an update. It should
pull it down for you.
As a matter of fact,
you know, we just, we
just released the update that
had the tiny URL integration,
and we've got another update
that we're gonna push out
fairly soon, maybe the end
of the week. That will
be mainly our bug tweet,
but sixes and you know,
maybe in a smaller memory
footprint, but yeah. Any, any
updates to blue should come
down to you automatically? No,
I didn't notice it at
all. You're doing custom custom
progress and you're bringing the
updates down in the back.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Visual studio.
You can, you can go
in there and specify, you
know, how you want your
quick ones updates to happen.
So Cool. That's great. I
like, I liked it. I
really surprised I did it.
Doesn't smell like click once
application. I mean, that is
a compliment. I mean, I
have a little tiny application.
That's not nearly sophisticated called
baby smash that, that I've,
I've gone back and forth
about how I want it
to behave as a click
once client. And this is
interesting. Are you guys planning
on starting a blog and
starting to spread some of
this information? Are you gonna
keep all this good stuff
secret? That's a good question.
We have a couple of
Twitter feeds right now, specifically
to the application, but yeah,
I mean, I think in
the future, I think we're,
we're always tending to do
some sort of internal exploration
around touch or whether it
be WPS clients or whatnot.
And I think, you know,
maybe in the future, I
think it would be fun
to kind of show we
have thought about just kind
of showing the process over
time. Like a lot of
people see the end result,
but they don't necessarily see,
you know, all the iterations
and all the work that
goes in it from proof
of concept all the way
through to, you know, something
where you can actually click
and download the application. And
I think we have thought
about, you know, showing more
of that process online in
some form. Yeah. I think
there's been some talk of
maybe as cooking up some
code to show off. I
think that when, when people
suffer and they build libraries
and they, you know, at
some point you decide whether
that's intellectual property, you want
to be bad and that's
a thing that keeps your
business going, or whether you
want to spread the love
and, and, and not make
that library a part of
your kind of internal IP.
And I think you can
find a balance. Yeah. I'd
love to show some of
the stuff that you're doing
next. So this is, this
is, this has been cool.
I appreciate you taking the
time. Alright. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.